The Project Gutenberg eBook of Petunia blossoms, by Dorothea Auguste
Gunhilde

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Petunia blossoms
       Ballads and poems

Author: Dorothea Auguste Gunhilde

Release Date: July 20, 2022 [eBook #68573]

Language: English

Produced by: Charlene Taylor, Chuck Greif and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The
             Internet Archive/American Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PETUNIA BLOSSOMS ***



                  [Illustration: photo of the author]




                           PETUNIA BLOSSOMS

                           Ballads and Poems

                                  BY

                       DOROTHEA AUGUSTE GUNHILDE

                                WIFE OF

                          WILLIAM F. SCHRAGE


                            COPYRIGHT 1921
                                  BY
                        MRS. WILLIAM F. SCHRAGE
                           KANSAS CITY, MO.

                             PUBLISHED BY
                          THE GATE CITY PRESS
                           KANSAS CITY, MO.


                                  To
                          My Beloved Husband,
                          WILLIAM F. SCHRAGE
                          to whom I dedicate
                              this book.




CONTENTS


Petunia Blossoms                                                       7

A Tribute to Thirty-Second St.                                         9

You Greenhorn                                                         11

Baby                                                                  13

Jack’s Christmas                                                      14

Is Marriage a Failure                                                 16

A Big Red Apple                                                       19

Little Mischiefs                                                      21

Christmas in Norway                                                   23

Our Flag                                                              26

Love is a Blossom                                                     28

The Three Bears                                                       30

Christmas Eve                                                         32

Young Innocence                                                       33

Good-By, Daddy                                                        35

The Bird of Paradise                                                  36

My Faithful Shoes                                                     38

Not Big Like Me                                                       41

A Fair Young Bride                                                    43

Two Little Red Birds                                                  44

Coming Home                                                           46

Colorado                                                              47

Mrs. O’Day                                                            48

In Memoriam                                                           49

Divorced                                                              50

Mother                                                                54

Ascension Day                                                         56

Your Star                                                             59

A Moth                                                                60

Lonely                                                                61

Playtime                                                              62

My Lillian                                                            63

Swope Park                                                            64

A Letter to a Friend                                                  66

Sweet Sixteen                                                         67

A Soldier’s Son                                                       68

An Old Clock                                                          69

A Wedding Anniversary                                                 71

Sing                                                                  72

Kindness                                                              73

Roses                                                                 74

There Is a Time                                                       75

Rural Baptizing Years Ago                                             77

Leaving the Old Home                                                  80




Petunia Blossoms.


    Oh, beautiful petunias, how lovely you grow,
    Some purple, some crimson and some white as snow;
    Your colors are like the rainbow bending o’er,
    And your scent comes into my windows and door.

    Your seeds were so tiny, I scarce could conceive,
    When you came up profusely, one can hardly believe
    That blossoms like these, such wee little mites
    Could produce in my garden such wonderful sights.

    When once you are planted when Spring comes around,
    Multiplied by hundreds you’d peep through the ground;
    Awaiting the heat, the Sun and the rain
    In the sweet early summer to grow lovely again.

    You come every year, you make my heart glad
    With such beautiful blossoms, how can I be sad?
    The humming bird loves you, they come every day
    And drink of your nectar, so softly and gay.

    Even the bee gets much of his sweetness from you
    In the early morning--your petals with dew,
    And hover around you; your blossoms they love,
    As you hold up your faces to Heaven above.

    The Autumn is coming, with its wind and cold;
    Again down to earth will you enfold,
    That in the Spring your strength may return;
    For you, lovely petunias, my heart will still yearn.




A Tribute to Thirty-Second Street.


    Just south of the heart of this Great Midwest Town,
    Is the dearest little street I ever have known;
    The homes are kept up with pride and care,
    And the lawns with beautiful flowers rare;
    Years have been many for some of us here,
    On this little street that we all hold so dear.

    Our children were wee things when we came out here,
    But now all is changed; some are gone, some are near;
    But our children’s children have come to bless;
    It’s a gift from Heaven--such love to possess;
    Were our children so sweet, so glad and so merry,
    With cheeks like rose buds, and lips like the cherry.

    The trees were but saplings, when we came out here,
    From the Sun have protected us many a year,
    And have grown up so high their branches meet,
    And form a cathedral nave over the street;
    And the birds in the mornings, their anthems to heav’n raise,
    ’Til you would think their throats would burst in their praise.

    This little street lies between Main and McGee,
    Out on Thirty-second. Do come, and see.
    If I say that I love you, believe me, it’s true,
    And so do the neighbors think a great deal of you.
    When I have been away and return, then I see
    You’re like an old sweetheart welcoming me.




You Greenhorn.


    Vacation is over, school opens today;
    Pleasures are laid aside, no time for play;
    But your happy children, who the language know,
    It makes it much easier to school to go.

    When I was a child in the first primer class,
    I knew not the language--was a shy little lass;
    For we had only a few months before
    Arrived in this country from cold Bergen’s shore.

    I remember so well, the first day my ma took me
    To school; how I trembled and blushed I still see.
    The sweet lady teacher took me by the hand,
    And said in a short time I would understand.

    She patted my cheek; oh, how happy was I
    To have found a friend--I wanted to cry
    For happiness, only the world seemed so cold,
    Although I was less than seven years old.

    A boy of my own age, across the aisle,
    Ev’ry now and then would look at me and smile;
    Then after school, he came to my side;
    “You Greenhorn; you Greenhorn,” loudly he cried.

    I ran home like a deer--for I felt such shame,
    This, the first day in school, and be called a bad name.
    I tip-toed quietly and whispered in mother’s ear,
    For I didn’t want little sister such naughty words to hear.

    But after this day, I had never a fear,
    For she said little fairies are always near
    To protect little children from danger they keep,
    Even at night when they are asleep.




Baby.


    I’m just a little baby, I pray you let me sleep;
    Please let me have my own way, for I don’t want to weep.
    I love to lay and stretch, of Heav’n I love to think,
    That sunny home I came from; just one more little wink.

    Don’t take me in your arms, and keep on rocking me;
    That I should be a good child, no reason I can see;
    Don’t sing so loud, my pink ears are tender little things,
    But like a little goldfinch a-flopping of its wings.

    Don’t kiss me on my lips, do kiss me on my hair;
    And, if you’ll turn my head around you’ll find a bald spot there;
    And when folks come to call, then please don’t dress me up
    In that long white dress, that’s starched from the bottom up
       to the top.

            And use a soft cloth on my face;
            It need not be of finest lace.
            And don’t come near my nose or eyes,
            Dat’s why little folks like me cries;
            But lay me tenderly in my crib to rest,
            To grow, and coo--I love that best.




Jack’s Christmas.


    Santa is coming, now Jack, go to bed;
    It’s freezing outdoors, so cover your head.
    The wind is howling, the ground is all white,
    ’Twill be a real Christmas, it may snow all night.
    Poor Santa will come, with a bound and a hop,
    For he has great stores in his big Christmas shop.
    He has rocking horses, balls and tops galore;
    The better the boy, so much the more
    Will he get, for Santa loves good boys--none that are bad.

    Dear mamma, I fink I’ve been a good boy,
    Yes, precious, you are your mother’s great joy;
    So now go to sleep, my darling, my Jack,
    I just heard a noise; oh, Santa, go back,
    And come in the morning, for sleep he needs more
    Than all the fine toys in Santa’s great store;
    And she tells of the Christ Child, so humble, so sweet,
    That was born in a manger, Hail Thee, we greet.

    In the morning, Jack woke up and rubbed his blue eyes;
    I fink this is surely a great big surprise,
    I never ’spected a tree, with lights red and blue,
    A sled and some mittens, nuts, and candy, too;
    I dest love old Santa; but I dreamed I had found
    A dear little playmate, wif cheeks red and round,
    All bundled up in your old blue shawl,
    Without any hair, dest like a big doll;
    Wish I could see Santa; oh, please, call him back,
    And say he forgot a playmate for Jack.




Is Marriage a Failure?


    Marriage is a problem, at least, so I have heard,
    I hope you’ll kindly listen, for I, too, have a word;
    But it was God’s own making; He ne’er can do a wrong;
    He deals with us so gently, we know not He is among
    Us when we are merely thinking; His Hand is not far away
    To guide us to His wishes; though all seems bright as day.

    Before you take the leap, think carefully and well;
    Don’t be in any hurry, it may mean quite a spell.
    Then, if you think a partner would to your blessings add,
    A home and little children to love and to make glad;
    Then make your resolutions, to stand while life shall last,
    ’Tis but human to err, forgive all that is past.

    Though times be turbulent at first, forget it with a smile,
    And say softly to yourself, ’twill be better after while;
    Should either of you argue about a pretty face
    At home, all sanctified with love, is wholly out of place.
    What care I if the Sun is gray or blue or red,
    All desires for argument, for love of you has fled.

    If you are not blest with worldly goods, you may be blest with health,
    For this I deem far greater than all your pompous wealth.
    Your home should be your palace, if it be great or small,
    And have sweet flowers blooming in the spring and in the fall;
    A little trelliced nook, with creeping vines around,
    Where the heart is ever glad to come, and where true love is found.

    A man loves his home, a smile his path to cheer,
    A few sweet spoken words, how easy and how clear;
    And little arms a-twining around his great big heart,
    To kiss and caress him--this is your happy part.
    To love and to be loved, what greater happiness is there,
    And all these will be yours, if you’ll see it right and square.

    The days of bleak December, with its hoary white and gray,
    A blessed little grandchild, do come with me and play;
    To you the name of mother is given from above,
    With little arms a-twining, sweet innocents of love.
    No, marriage is not a failure. I’m simply here to prove
    A home so full of sweetness is sanctified by love.

    But it was God’s own making, He ne’er has done a wrong,
    He deals with us so gently, we know not He is among
    Us when we’re merely thinking, His hand is not far away
    To guide us to His wishes though all is bright as day.




A Big Red Apple.


    There is a great big apple in the top of the tree;
    Oh, do come down and be sweet to me;
    You have hung there so long, and have tempted my taste
    And hope that the birds won’t come near you to waste.

    When you were aglow with your blossom so white,
    I could see from my window in the dead of the night;
    The rose blush began, when snow lay around,
    And was mixed with your petals all over the ground.

    Your tree is so full, but none seems more fair,
    Than this one that swings in the morning’s pure air;
    I have touched the ones I could reach with my arm,
    And fear for the storm that is coming to harm.

    So come down, my love, your cheeks are so red;
    It’s you that I want, none other instead;
    Come to your sweetheart--I’ll wipe off the dust;
    Fall down in my lap, for have you I must.

    I believe you are flirting, so high in the air,
    The humming bird and butterfly can fly ’round you there.
    I don’t want to harm you; believe, me, I could;
    I can shake you, and make you, if only I would.

    One day shortly after, I saw on the ground
    The apple I had worshipped, with others around;
    But none was more fair to my mind, I knew,
    And none was more rosy and sweeter than you.




Little Mischiefs.


    Grandpa’s darlings see him coming
    Up the hill, they come a running,
    Till at length they stop to rest;
    Then he thinks how he is blest.
    Wholesome love such kisses sweet,
    What care they whom they may meet,
    For doesn’t grandpa always bring
    His pockets full of some good thing?

    And a story he can tell,
    Of the pussy cat that fell in the well,
    And of the children that were lost in the wood,
    That ran from their home and never were good.
    He can tell of the apple tree that grew so tall,
    Laden with fruit, that leaned on the wall;
    Then of the circus, oh, happy we,
    For we are sure we will everything see.

    And many more things, I tell you, ’tis so--
    For he knows more’n anybody, and ’ats true.
    I fink I’ll marry grandpa, he pleases me so fine.
    The best ain’t ever good enough for me to dine.
    Our own way we can have, when he comes to stay
    To look after us and spend the day.

    If our toys lay around on our very best floor,
    And we pin pictures up on the walls and the door;
    The noise that we make--we jump up and down,
    On our beautiful sofa, in our parlor of brown.
    He didn’t say one teentsy bit a word,
    For he had a nap, and never has heard.
    He looks for his glasses--they are on his nose;
    Now this is a fine time for me to propose.
    But mother came home, not one word did she say,
    Except, you have had a good time today.

    When grandpa was gone, we could see by her looks,
    Something that’s not often written in books.
    We got scared as could be--we hustled around,
    To put things back in the place we had found;
    Now, mammy, don’t please say one word to dad,
    For this was the best day we ever have had;
    We wish you’d have grandpa come every day,
    Never to leave us, but come here to stay.
    We love you and daddy as much as we can,
    But we also love grandpa, he’s such a fine man.




Christmas in Norway.


    Good Shepherd, I pray Thee, let Santa come
    And bring us the things we have asked for so long;
    There’s Gerald needs shoes, his old ones are too bad,
    And an overcoat, a warm one, for the very best dad;
    There’s Peer, need’s a cap, to keep out the cold,
    We have looked at one longingly--but it was sold.
    And a big bisque doll, for our golden haired sister;
    Now please don’t forget us, I pray you, Kind Mister,
    And don’t forget mother; now what does she need;
    It seems to take all dad can make, us to feed,
    To keep out the cold, the snow is so deep;
    Amen, Kind Shepherd, I lay me to sleep.

    Santa (Yulenissen) had heard the prayers that he said;
    At six Christmas Eve great bundles on the sofa were spread,
    First the feasting begins, on roast goose and almond rice,
    Even those not as fortunate have everything nice.
    Then the candles are lit on the pine tree so bright;
    It is indeed a most beautiful sight,
    Everyone joins hands and dance ’round the tree,
    Singing old songs and laughing--such glee.
    Then when the colored lights are burning low
    The gifts are distributed with many an Oh!

    Gifts were substantial, for fathers and mothers,
    And more than they prayed for these little brothers,
    Some skis and some skates, three pairs of glad eyes,
    So full of happiness and full of surprise,
    And a golden haired doll, with soft eyes of blue,
    Its new little mother lisped, prayers do come true.

    This was Christmas Eve in Norway, not a great while ago;
    The land of glaciers, ice and snow;
    Where reindeers pull Santa over mountains high.
    Click, click through the ice covered fjords they fly,
    To visit the homes of the Norsemen, so hardy.
    They understand, not one minute tardy,

    In furs he is wrapped, from his head to his feet,
    To protect him from cold, the sharp wind and the sleet.
    Sometimes folks ask Santa to come in and dine,
    A warm bowl of soup, or some red sparkling wine.

    The peasants he visits; there is rarely a year
    That he ever misses these children so dear.
    He loves them because they are human and kind,
    And a more honest people, he knows, hard to find;
    The unfortunate are the ones he always loves best,
    For the rich, he knows, are already blest.

    Should a tourist over the great mountains get lost,
    The Norseman is always a genial host;
    The great yulelog in the neat fireplace,
    Is lighting the bonde’s red, rugged face;
    He is rubbing his hands, how cold the weather,
    It is time we must go to kirke together;
    The bell in the church tower, over the hill,
    Is ringing, Peace on Earth, to men good will,
                                              Good Will,
                                                  Good Will.




Our Flag.


    Father in heaven above,
    We offer prayers and love,
    For this great land;
    Help us to understand
    Thy will on ev’ry hand,
    This grand and beauteous land
    We love so well.

    Our banners float on high,
    Far in the eastern sky,
    Far in the west;
    We thank thee for our clime,
    Lovely and grand, sublime;
    For men of olden time,
    Peaceful at rest.

    Red, white and blue, my pride,
    Furl it on every side;
    My love for thee
    Stand for the right always,
    Stand for the truth, we say;
    Honored and blessed, we pray,
    Lov’d blessed land.

    Our valleys and our hills,
    Our land with products fills
    Our grateful hearts;
    Long may this love abide
    With us from side to side.
    Red, white and blue, my pride
    God bless our land.




Love Is a Blossom.


    Love is a blossom that blooms in the heart;
    The least little jar, it may fall apart.

    This blossom is blue, like the heavens above,
    Truly the world is full of love.

    One naughty word the heart doth sear,
    These are the things that one should fear.

    Blossom and glow and bloom and bloom,
    The time may come--the years of gloom.

    Mother love can never die,
    Her love has little wings that fly.

    The sun by day, the moon by night,
    God has created love and light.

    And heat and cold, gentle rains and snow,
    That blades of green again may grow.

    Be glad for the day, dear heart of mine,
    And the hands that clasp, and eyes that shine.

    There is love in the heart for the birds that fly,
    And even a leaf that falls down to die.

    So keep your heart blooming full of love
    In thankfulness, to heaven above.

    The dear forget-me-not, modest and blue,
    Is the flower that blooms in my heart for you.




The Three Bears.


    I’ll tell you a story, children dear,
    Of father and mother and baby bear;
    They lived on a hill, in the hollow of a tree,
    And were as happy as three could well be.

    It was autumn, in beautiful October time,
    When nuts and persimmons were in their prime;
    The leaves were falling--how well they could hear,
    If wicked hunters should happen near.

    One day the baby bear was left alone,
    Asleep in his bed, on leaves of brown;
    In his little nest, so cozy and warm,
    Dreaming of birds that could never harm.

    He woke up suddenly, and screamed aloud,
    A rustle in the path--what’s this noise about;
    In came old bruin, his eyes wet with tears,
    They had lived unmolested for many years.

    He ran for his life, he wanted to do his part,
    Old mother bear had been shot, straight through the heart;
    He had hurried away, his own life to save,
    The bullets flew fast--you horrible knave;
    And thought of his baby, alone in his bed,
    How could he tell him his mammy bear was dead?




Christmas Eve.


    Another Christmas Eve is here
    Bringing joy and bringing cheer,
    Holly branches and mistletoe bring
    And the old songs let us sing
            Allelujah!

    Ring the bells in the church towers,
    And let happiness be ours;
    For on this day a King was born,
    Hail, oh, glorious Christmas Morn!

    Let the yule log glow with embers red,
    And on your festive tables spread
    Peace on earth, good will to men,
    Happy day has come again.

    To the old and to the young,
    In every land and every tongue,
    Let Bethlehem’s Star much gladness bring,
    Light of the World, to Thee we sing.
            Allelujah!




Young Innocence.


    I have a grandma that is really old and gray,
    But I don’t care, if she looks that way;
    She is always glad as glad can be
    When we come to see her, Brother Bill and me.
    We live away out in the country you know,
    When we get to grandma’s, it’s hungry we grow;
    In her pantry there is always something good to eat,
    An orange, an apple, perhaps a soft piece of meat
    To put between bread, it surely tastes fine;
    There can be none better than that grandma of mine.

    Did you have a grandma that would treat you like this?
    Always a great big hug, so glad to see you, and a kiss;
    But never on my mouth, for she says roses linger there;
    Way up on my forehead, think it’s very near my hair.
    Then she sits and holds me, while Bill leans on her knee,
    And then I’m just as happy as I possibly can be;
    Then she says, “Now say your prayers, and to your grandma show
    The lines your ma has taught you, and all the verse you know.”

    But somehow, when I said “The Lord my Shepherd is,”
    She held me so much closer, cause not one word did I miss;
    And Bill, he joined, but often missed a line;
    He’s not three years old, yet, but really doing fine.
    I’m going to be a big girl, as sure as you’re alive,
    When my next birthday comes, then I will be just five,
    Then I’m going to wear a long dress and specs, like grandma, too,
    And folks will pass and say, Miss Dorothea, how de do.

    I’m going to learn to play and sing and be a lady fine,
    ’Cause I will be real careful and study every line.
    And then I’ll be too old for dolls, I’ll put them on a chair,
    For we have been such good friends, think I should treat them fair;
    I’ll be too big for hair bows--oh, dear, what shall I do;
    Well, I’ll go down to grandma’s, and settle it with you.




Good By, Daddy.


    A scene so sad, so very sad, how can I e’er forget,
    They seemed to know each other, whom they had not even met;
    The friends of these brave soldiers, in sorrow bent and sore,
    For fear these sons have parted, and will never see them more.

    Just one more kiss for daddy, dear sweetheart, don’t be sad,
    When I get to camp, dear, you shall daily hear from dad;
    Two lovers stood beside the train, good-bye, a last embrace,
    A moment later he was gone; the tears streamed down her face.

    And many hearts were aching, and many eyes were dim,
    And many prayers were offered; Oh, God, take care of him,
    And bring him back in safety, when this great war is o’er,
    Then we will be so happy; we will ask for nothing more.

    July 18, 1918--On this day 556 men left Kansas City for various
    camps, at the Union Station, Kansas City, Mo.




The Bird of Paradise.


    The most beautiful birds live where the climate is warm,
    Where breezes blow that can do them no harm;
    The bird of paradise, most beautiful of all,
    In the month of May entertains with a ball,
    To show off their plumage, they dance high up in the trees.
    Early in the mornings, when all is at peace.

    It’s the male bird that’s bedecked with plumage fine,
    How they love to display and sit in the sunshine;
    They are the size of a hawk, with head and neck
    Like golden velvet all bedecked;
    And the sprays of orange colored feathers long
    Sometimes two feet, but not very strong;
    On each side of the body, under their wings,
    These masses of golden plumage springs.

    The female is not as fortunate as he,
    A throat of green and wings of brown has she,
    So glossy and soft, full of pride and dignity,
    How gracefully they dance, it’s wonderful to see;
    And never suspect that the enemy might be near,
    To rob them of life--which they, too, hold dear.

    Now would you have naughty hunters to kill
    These beautiful birds, your vanity to fill,
    To wear on your hat, or to wear in your hair;
    Would you be guilty of these happy lives to dispair?
    I’m sure you would not, if you really knew,
    Yet this little story, believe me, is true.




My Faithful Shoes.


    My good old shoes, it’s time that we part,
    Although it will nigh break my heart;
    You have offended me so, just the other day,
    A new home you must find--shall I throw you away?

    ’Twas a short time ago, a friend came to call,
    I was out on the lawn, with the children playing ball;
    I begged her excuse me, just one little minute,
    She said, please don’t dress, fifteen minutes is my limit.

    I was so humiliated, how much I cannot say,
    For I had decided this should be your last day;
    With a knife I had split you on either side,
    When I went to the door, my feet I would hide.

    True, you are full of comfort, we’ve been such good friends,
    Even if the heels are down at both ends;
    She stayed and she stayed, I didn’t know quite what she said;
    For you, old shoes, kept running around in my head.

    Finally she bade me adieu; I went to the back door,
    I flung you away, I don’t want you more;
    How untidy I looked; I was ready to drop;
    I’ll put on the new ones, I bought in the shop.

    And sat down to rest and read a new book,
    Oh, how they did hurt, and how cross I did look;
    When my husband came home, I was all in tears--
    What’s the matter, you’re older at least, by ten years.

    I had to explain the cause, for nerve I had none,
    I believe my heart stood still, I saw only one;
    The new ones did not prove good friends, I declare,
    After a few hours I looked for you there.

    Down in the garden, did anyone see
    Me pick up my shoe, under the old apple tree?
    I wiped you off tenderly and put you on;
    Oh, where is the other, I fear it is gone.

    To our Collie dog, Bruno, I said, can you tell
    Me where my shoe is?--and waited a spell,
    Then back he came prancing, in his mouth was my shoe,
    I was so glad to see you--none but myself knew.

    I must say to you dears, how I wore you with pride,
    The day that we called on the beautiful bride;
    And down the aisle, in the church, when the bells rang,
    And the choir their heavenly hallelujahs sang.

    When we crossed the Atlantic, Europe to see
    The wonders, then truly you were good to me;
    For we walked in the mornings, late into the nights,
    You gave me much pleasure in seeing the sights.

    But somehow or other, since that terrible day,
    That such mortals like me should be made of mere clay;
    It near breaks my heart in sorrow to lay,
    You away in a corner, a short time to stay.

    There’s nothing like ease, away with your style;
    I prefer to laugh, to sing, and to smile;
    Old shoes, you’re my friends, you’ve been tried, you are true,
    And I hope, for a while, to still stand by you.




Not Big Like Me.


    There’s a baby that’s come to our house today,
    And I understand he came here to stay;
    I’ve prayed for a sister ever so long,
    But it’s a brother, with lungs lusty and strong.

    I can’t say that I’m pleased with his pink and red looks,
    Although I wanted to show him my books,
    He wouldn’t look my way, how hard I would try;
    He’d pucker his face up and cry and cry.

    But mammy says he’ll be as big as me
    Some day, but somehow I cannot see;
    I’m almost a man now, I’m nearly three
    On my next birthday in January.

    I thought when I prayed for a sister that I
    Would have a playmate, not one that would cry;
    And one who’d be out in the garden to play
    With me, the whole of the livelong day.

    I guess I must wait till he really grows,
    And gets big like me--heaven only knows,
    I’ll just call up central, and tell her that we
    Have a boy at our house--not big like me.

    And I know she’ll be glad, for I called her up
    Sometime ago--I said, please don’t stop,
    But telephone to heaven, my number fifty-seven,
    To send me a sister to earth from heaven.

    But I can’t understand that I ever was small
    Like this little fellow, with cap, gown and all;
    I’ll show him my marbles, my hoop and my sled,
    And I’ll call him Albert, while you call him Fred.




A Fair Young Bride.


    There’s none more beautiful or fair
    Than this pure maiden standing there,
    In her bridal robes, as light as air,
    With orange blossoms in her hair.

    How rich the scarlet of her lips,
    Like the glory that the angel sips;
    The contour of her lovely face,
    Within the folds of priceless lace.

    How glossy the masses of golden hair,
    Divinely beautiful at the altar there;
    And her wondrous deep brown eyes--
    Surely she hails from Paradise.

    May never heartaches never pain,
    Within your home a queen to reign,
    With noble thoughts on your brow so fair,
    We ask God’s blessings on this pair.




Two Little Red Birds.


    There’s a birdie at our window,
    Tapping just as if he knew
    There were happy little children
    Where the wind was blowing through;
    And they tapped and kept on tapping.
    Did they want to come inside?
    Their little wings were flapping,
    Open up your window wide.

    And the children were so happy,
    Just to see the birds fly in
    Under shelter, under safety,
    In the snow storm they had been;
    And we fed these little birdies
    With soft crumbs of whitest bread;
    And they ate, these little sturdies,
    Tempted them to go to bed.

    In the morning, bright and early,
    They were up before daylight;
    And they said, peek-peek, to thank us
    For the shelter of the night;
    Then we tho’t how birds must suffer
    In their nest of softest down;
    And we looked in a small corner
    Laid a little foot so brown.

    And no wonder they were tapping
    Tapping at our window pane;
    For the cruel wind had frozen
    Off its little foot--such pain.
    Then we thought how birds must suffer
    From the cold and from the snow;
    And we built a little bird house
    That would keep them warm, we know.




Coming Home.


    George is coming home, this letter tells me so,
    From the camp so far away--how glad and cold I grow.
    I have sat at even’, when the sun was bending o’er
    The west; I can see him, still, go through the open door.

    With tears in his eyes, a brave smile upon his face,
    I’ll be back to you shortly, by His will and His grace;
    And today I’ll begin to look and to hear
    If his wandering feet are coming near.

    My heart beats fast, for I hear a sound,
    The walk is like his, over the old ground,
    And a sound like one whistling--Oh, is it he?
    I falter; no, no; it cannot be.

    The days glided by slowly, one by one,
    At last she hastens--dear son, my son!
    The chair that was vacant, again is filled,
    And the heart throbs again are stilled, are stilled.




Colorado.


    Great and mighty mountains high,
    Piercing boldly through the sky;
    With snow patched ridges here and there,
    Solemn magnificance everywhere.

    How majestic there you stand,
    Your scenery so bold and grand,
    Rivulets foaming, through deep ravines,
    Throwing out green and silvery sheens.

    Higher and higher up you go,
    Where vegetation can never grow;
    The snow lies sleeping the year around,
    And deep glaciers on its bosom abound.

    Great and mighty mountains high,
    Piercing through the deep blue sky;
    For palette or brush what need have we;
    Look out of your window, a picture you’ll see.




Mrs. O’Day.


    Miss Sigrid Hiland went out one day,
    And decided to change her name to Mrs. O’Day;
    Mr. Minister tied the knot firmly and strong,
    For together they must live--we hope very long.

    To housekeeping she set her heart with a vim,
    Not to please herself; oh, no, but to please him;
    And she is so sweet for this good man to possess,
    She is winsome and brave, and will a home bless.

    We wish you all joy that this world can give,
    And for many years together, happy will live;
    Let His way be your way, don’t vary a bit,
    Then your hearts forever will be by holiness lit.




To My Beloved Parents.

In Memoriam.


    On your resting place I spread today
    Sweet blossoms on your bed of clay;
    Alas, what more here can I do
    But pray, dear ones, for both of you.

    The sun is setting in the west,
    With glowing colors you are blest;
    Thus here I stand, the declining day,
    With birds about you still at play.

    At night the stars shine over your bed,
    And silvery moonbeams over head,
    To guide your souls to heaven above,
    Where all is peace, eternal love.

    The meek, weeping willow sings the requiem
    To the birds that it shelters at night in their dream,
    And the wind wails softly over head,
    Sobbing and sighing--they are dead.




Divorced.


    My divorce has been granted this very day,
    With no one to scold, I can do what I may;
    My heart seems to flutter, how happy I feel,
    It will take some time this great wound to heal.

    My dear Mrs. Smith, good morning to you,
    I have heard about a divorce, is it really true?
    Well, I’m awfully sorry, now what can I do
    To lessen your burden, for your children and you.

    He seemed so proud of you, when you would go out
    In the warm summer evenings, to ride about;
    Such love looks he’d give you; now how can this be
    To break up a home, I pray you, tell me.

    It was this way, when I married him I didn’t know
    How to cook or keep house, not even to sew;
    My parents were old--so it fell to me
    To help support them--now, do you see?

    I toiled and worked early and late,
    And nearly deplored my unfortunate fate.
    When I laid them away, I was left alone,
    Friends I had few--oh, how I did mourn.

    Then after a year he came into my life,
    All was peace and harmony, no thought of strife;
    And blessings were added when our children came;
    The harder he worked, so anxious for fame.

    Then, after a time, he was so hard to please;
    In his presence I scarcely could feel at ease,
    For I didn’t do one little thing for him right,
    Until I wished he was far out of sight.

    And this thing kept on, it near drove me wild;
    I felt so small--just like a wee child;
    I resented his words and told him that I
    Would not live with him longer--and sooner would die.

    He sneered and he laughed; yes, work for pay
    From early till late, the whole blessed day;
    I gave you this home, what more can I do;
    I have worked and worked for my children and you.

    When I would mention a trip in the summer to go
    Just anywhere, I’d say--you need it, you know,
    What nonsense he’d say; I’m well as can be;
    A vacation for me? Well, that I can’t see.

    Well, that is the way we wrangled, till I
    Was so unhappy I wanted to fly;
    Perhaps this sounds trivial to you, but to me
    It seems as big as the great open sea.

    But I understand, my dear little friend,
    That he’s been to call, and some gifts did send;
    And the great loads of coal he sent you last week,
    Surely you thanked him--some kind word did speak?

    Yes, and he gave me this home; he provided well
    For his little family--I can safely tell
    We never suffered for a want or a care
    When the time came around, it was always there.

    Before I go, do call the children in,
    It’s so long since I’ve seen them. Why, Minnie, how thin
    You have grown; why, Charlie, how small
    And pale you are; do have your doctor call.

    The boy’s fever was high--he calls in his pain,
    Oh, papa, dear, papa, come kiss me again.
    The door softly opens, a lov’d voice in the hall,
    In his arms he clasps her, his best friend, his all.

    Years have passed; yes, truly, they are happy now;
    The glad days of youth are gone, somehow,
    But on her face a sweet smile is lingering there,
    And sweet contentment is found everywhere.

    And Charlie has grown to be straight and tall;
    And Min’s little one, the youngest of all,
    Lies in his crib, such a sweet little lad
    That is watched over happily by grandma and grand-dad.




Mother.


    Mother, you nursed me at your breast,
    And gave of yourself, your very best;
    Your anxiety, care and watchful nights,
    When all was still you would turn on the lights
    To see I was snugly covered in bed
    Long after my little prayers were said.

    When I went to school you would help me so much,
    When my lessons were hard--but your soft touch
    Would ease it all, for I leaned on your word,
    It was always the dearest I ever have heard;
    My heart beats fast, when I think how dear
    You always were to your children here.

    Truth and obedience was always your aim,
    Mother, mother, how fair is your name;
    How grateful I am I can scarcely say,
    Though you are gone away, far away,
    Singing the Miserere, I still see you there,
    Rocking your child with tenderest care.

    Mother love is strong, many a sorrow, many a tear;
    When all else fails, her love is still there;
    And she’ll go to the end of the earth for you.
    So noble, so gentle--none kinder and true;
    Yes, you were my first friend--why should I not love
    To pray for your soul that is called above.




Ascension Day.


    We sailed away one fair March day,
    From Norway’s shore so far away
    To a new land; our hopes were high;
    Oh, what have we done; oh, my; oh, my;
    Left father and mother and dear friends on shore,
    Perhaps never to see them more.
    We sailed and sailed many miles over the sea,
    And prayed God to protect my children and me.

    The icebergs surrounded our ship one night;
    The captain shouted no water in sight,
    Like mountains around us, we are here to stay;
    It may be a week, it may be a day.
    We looked at each other in mute horror and dread,
    Should the days go by, who would give us bread?
    Nearly three weeks went by, no help in sight,
    Each man was willing to do his mite.

    At sunrise the captain called with a shout,
    Out of these icebergs, we must get out;
    I was up on the mast, I see water ahead;
    The sun is high and looks quite red;
    Today is Ascension Day, all come, kneel and pray
    That we will be out of here before close of day.
    Weeping and sobbing they knelt on the floor,
    And prayed as they never had prayed before.

    Now, my men, get an ax or a saw, cut the ice;
    Make a path for our ship. To work, time flies;
    They labored untiringly for hours; ’twas hard work,
    It meant much suffering if this work they should shirk,
    Then when they were through, all panting and cold;
    They were drawn up by ropes into the ship’s hold.

    Now, my men, be steady; shove with all your might;
    For, if it’s God’s will, we will be in the light.
    The ship moves; what’s creaking; oh, what a roar;
    Today it’s life or death; what can be done more;
    Mothers clung to their children and clasped them real fast,
    For this is a day of days, it may be the last.
    The foghorn blows; I trembled with fear
    For my little ones and my husband, so dear.

    I hugged them closely to my heart,
    We are saved, we are saved, I heard with a start;
    Do my ears hear aright; I laugh and I cry,
    For I was ready this day to die.
    God heard our prayers; ah! can it be
    That we are again sailing out on this wide sea?
    Such laughing, such shouting, no time to weep;
    Only to dance and sing; no time for sleep.

    The dignified and glad captain took a hand in the game,
    From hearty congratulations his right arm was lame;
    But three hundred souls, with God’s help, he had saved
    From the towering bergs and a briny grave.

       *       *       *       *       *

This really happened in April, 1865, in the northern part of the
Atlantic ocean. The ship was an old fashioned sailing vessel and under
ordinary circumstances would have required three to four weeks time from
Bergen, Norway, to Montreal, Canada.

Passengers were compelled to carry enough bread for their entire
families, to last for the whole trip, which of course, would become hard
and dry. Many icebergs have nearly vertical walls, often more than one
hundred feet. These floating mountains of ice sometimes have very
fantastic shapes. It is not safe for a ship to come near one, and it is
no uncommon thing for an iceberg to suddenly turn upside down. How
things have changed since then! One can go the same distance in about
twelve days. We were seven weeks crossing at that time on account of the
anxious and terrible stay in the icebergs.

I’m glad to be here in this great land and to tell you this story of my
youth.




Your Star.


    How deep and wide the ocean;
        No eye its depths hath seen
    What secrets there are hidden,
        Below the briny green.

    There are numberless living creeping things,
        Both great and small,
    And mermaids, too, that sweetly sing;
        It’s Him that made them all.

    Should you up in the heavens gaze,
        Their duplicates you’ll find;
    The world is still a closed book,
        Each living thing of every kind.

    Yet do we ever think how weak,
        How helpless, how small we are;
    And as I sit and ponder,
        Are we likened to a star?




A Moth.


    A moth flew into my room last night,
    Where the flame turned all into gorgeous light;
    It flew ’round about till it finally came
    Too near; for it was a cruel flame
    And never stopped till it fell to the floor,
    Air seared and misshapen; it hopped to the door
    There it lay, breathing its last,
    For love of a flame its life was past.




Lonely.


    One day Nicodemus lay down and died,
    And his good little wifey cried and cried.
    A few days after he was laid away
    Under the sod--deep down in the clay.

    The days were so long, how lonely was she,
    For he died in the autumn; not a green tree;
    She took out his clothes and brushed them so neat,
    And patched his pants right over the seat.

    Then she called in a neighbor, and opened the door,
    And showed her the clothes Nicodemus “had wore;
    And his poor old socks she broidered in brown;”
    Such a good man was he--they weeping sat down.

    When he was alive, I had so much to do,
    The days were so short I never got through;
    And when I get lonely, perhaps I have missed
    To put on a button or a patch I have kissed.




Playtime.


    Old age is the time to watch and pray,
    And to prepare for the coming day.

    Your workday is over--rest and be glad,
    This is your playtime--do not be sad.

    Your hair is turned from brown to gray,
    And the little ringlets softly play.

    And hold a wee dear one close to your heart,
    Singing a lullaby--this is your part.

    And see the blue smoke curl over your head
    From your golden meerschaum; gladness doth shed.

    And the song of the birds, again spring is here,
    Bringing to all the time we hold dear.

    And old recollections your memory doth fill,
    Of youth, full of fire--you remember still.

    And the dear ones around you, full of love,
    Are preparing the way to Heaven above.




My Lillian.


    My lovely, sweet Lillian, with eyes so brown,
    And hair like the softest of thistledown;
    I clasp you, my darling, close to my heart,
    And pray that heaven will never us part.

    My joy you are, truly, I love you so much,
    And hope no rude winds will ever you touch;
    My child, may God bless you, His tenderest care,
    To watch over you gently, my dear one so fair.




Swope Park.


    Mother, dear, do let us go
    Out to Swope Park; now don’t say no;
    We love the green, the flowers, the trees,
    The humming birds, the bumble bees.

    The silvery lake, the running stream,
    Last night I saw it in my dream;
    The sky is bluer, the keen air
    Is more invigorating there.

    Oh mother, dear, it is such fun
    Out on the grassy slopes to run
    The birds sing sweetly in the trees,
    And listen to the whispering breeze.

    The frisky rabbits run around
    For bits of food that’s to be found
    Over land and meadow free
    Where sweet blossoms and the bee

    Boldly sucks the honey out,
    From flower to flower they fly about.
    And the Sun in golden streams
    Over more than twelve hundred acres beams.

    And the Zoo, mother, it’s free,
    And intended for such as you and me.
    At last a basket is filled with a lunch,
    Under the waving trees to munch.
    So happy, out in God’s pure air,
    Is sweet, sweet joy for this dear pair.




A Letter to a Friend.


My Dear Mrs. Gowey: How are you, pray? I can guess you are enjoying the
breeze from the bay, while we are most uncomfortable. Be glad you are
there, in your home in Seattle, where heat need not give you a care.
Daughter is all settled now in her home so neat, with her husband and
her two children sweet. They left for the country a few days ago, and
left me their son to care for, you know. But daughter got lonesome and
wanted her boy. So dad took his hopeful to her with great joy. Nothing
has happened on this dear little street since the day that you left it,
at least nothing great. The same neighbors sit on their porches at
night, trying to find a breeze, perhaps a stray one, real light. I’ll
close now and hope that these lines will fall into the hands of your
dear self and all. We think of you often in your home far away, and hope
you’ll be well and happy; and say, here’s a kiss, and goodby, and hope
you will find the time to write me; now do be kind.--Very cordially
yours, D.




Sweet Sixteen.


    I feel quite old today, do you know;
    Mother thinks it’s time I should learn to sew.
    Then to the dry goods store I went,
    Straight to the bargain counter bent.

    Goods for a waist was hard to find,
    Just what was suited to my mind.
    At last I decided on some cloth of blue
    With roses and violets of gorgeous hue.

    Now home I did hasten, to cut it out,
    And put my mind on what I was about;
    My, but wasn’t it hard to work, to sew and to baste,
    My sleeves went in wrong six times in my haste.

    Mother praised my work, for a rest I might go
    To a dear little neighbor, who lives just below;
    And wasn’t I proud, when she said I looked grand;
    That ’twas but a matter of time, I’d be quite a hand.




A Soldier’s Son.


    I’m going to be a man, now that father is called away;
    I’ll begin to do as he did in our home this very day;
    I’m only twelve years old, but I’ll do my very best
    To make it happy day by day and give mamma a rest.

    I’ll bring the wood and coal in, when I come home from school,
    And go down to the spring and bring the water cool;
    I’ll milk the cow, and feed the pigs, as father used to do;
    I know he’ll say, when he gets back, “My son, I’m proud of you.”

    Two miles to walk to school ’twill mean an early rise;
    Folks seem to say I’m small yet--but work, I don’t despise;
    Before Dad went away, he laid his hand upon my head,
    “My son, take care of mother, sister Lillian and Fred.”

    I’m glad I have a father, that is so brave and strong,
    I’m going to be like him, the time will not be long;
    I will not be a slacker, I’ll do all that I can;
    It never will be my fault if I don’t grow up a man.




An Old Clock.


    I’m an old wooden clock, on the mantel I stand,
    Pointing the hours with my slender hand;
    Tick-tock I say, all day and all night through,
    If you’ll wind me I’ll even waken you;
    I never smile, I look always the same,
    For I’m caged up in this old wooden frame.

    I keep on going, year in and year out,
    For I know just what I am about;
    It’s not much time that you give me to wind me,
    But that I demand, I’ll not run till you wind me,
    For I can be just as still--not a sound
    Will escape me until with the key I am wound.

    You must handle me gently, I am easily shaken,
    If you don’t I to the clocksmith must be taken;
    I’m heavy, even though I’m not very large,
    For the larger the clock, the smaller the charge;
    And the times are quite hard, at least so they say,
    I work for love of you, but folks work for pay.

    My springs are the finest of steel from the north,
    From the mountains of Norway I was brought forth;
    The fjords of that country for centuries have washed me,
    Till I’m the bluest of steel, none better there can be;
    How I came out here, I can guess, I suppose,
    And I have been faithful, as everyone knows.

    And this wooden frame, from a far away land,
    Is from the black forests, so stately and grand,
    And carved in old Switzerland, so now you can see
    I’m really as costly as I can be;
    And, with your consent, on this mantel I’ll stand,
    And solemnly point the hours with my slender hand.




A Wedding Anniversary.


    ’Twas many years ago, my dear, do you remember?
    And how bitter cold it was, the twenty-fourth of December,
    When we plighted our troth, for better, for worse,
    When I promised to obey--and in sickness to nurse;
    When you said yes, I take thee to be my wedded wife,
    To have and to hold, for the rest of my life,
    To love and to cherish, ’til death us do part;
    Today I repeat the same--my old sweetheart.
    Sweetheart of my youth, sweetheart you are yet,
    And sweetheart from the time when first we met;
    Life seems more sweet now, with you by my side;
    Even before I was your little bride.
    Today I thrice promise, till death us do part,
    Till we’re wedded in heaven, sweetheart, dear heart.




Sing.


    Sing, you happy children, sing;
    It makes you glad for everything.
    Sing from morning to the night,
    Everything will seem more bright;
    And for health there’s nothing better,
    Open your lung cells, do not fetter.
    If you want to be well and great and strong
    When you are older, the world among,
    Then sing, just sing, I pray you, sing;
    There will be sweet harmony in everything,
            Just sing.




Kindness.


    Kindness has no value true,
    Only a sweet smile will do;
    Don’t you think the kindly touch
    Of the hand, it don’t seem much.

    Yet it means more than one can tell,
    It is a time that is spent well.
    Let us not forgetful be,
    These little kindnesses to see.

    Teach us purity and love,
    Lend thy light from heaven above;
    To you, and me, sweet peace divine,
    That goodness from our hearts may shine.




Roses.


    Roses, roses, dear fair roses,
    In your heart sweet scent reposes;
    In the morning when the dew
    Trickles diamonds down on you.

    Then you lift your head with pride,
    You can adorn a fair June bride,
    But your life, so short, so fair,
    Is dried up by noonday air.

    But others come out by your side,
    And open up their petals wide;
    Life is but short, so let us throw
    Sunshine and roses where we go.




There Is a Time.


    Life is so serious, life is so grand,
    Just look about on every hand;

    There is heat to make vegetation grow,
    When the sun shines out in golden glow.

    Can you make the chrysanthemum bloom in the spring?
    No, there is a time and place for everything.

    Does the fruit tree bear when the weather is cold?
    It’s the kiss of the sun that makes it unfold.

    In summer to grow, in winter to sleep;
    Below glaciers gay colored flowers peep.

    A time to eat, a time to sleep,
    A time to laugh, a time to weep.

    The ceaseless tides that ebb and flow;
    Their reason and wherefore, dost thou know?

    A time to work, a time to pray,
    To ask God’s blessings on the day.

    A time to plant, a time to reap;
    At night the stars their vigil keep.

    A time for frost, a time for dew;
    These are nature’s changes, always new.

    A picture today, you may love and adore,
    In the passing of time, will you care for it more?

    A time to dance, a time to sing,
    A time to be glad for everything.

    The song of the wind is singing to you,
    Moaning and whistling the whole night through.

    Can we make our destines for weel or for woe?
    Are we not created to be just so?

    For good or for evil, is there a hand that guides,
    All things are for good, none else besides.

    Plants bend toward the sun to thrive and to grow,
    Are the stars reflected in the afterglow?

    There is a time to mate for the birds that fly;
    Can we see all with the naked eye?

    This law is as firm as the mountains that stand,
    Truly the world “somewhere has a firm hand.”

    There is a time to laugh, a time to sigh;
    And there will come a time to lie down and die.




Rural Baptizing Years Ago.


    A good and noble friend invited us to come
    And bring the family along, to spend the month of June.
    We planned and talked trip, both night and day,
    Until the time came, we would be on our way.
    We packed a basket full of good things to eat
    On the train, for the children, was happiness complete.
    In the afternoon at four, we reached our destination,
    Looking around, there was no one at the station
    To meet us with family small.
    Was our letter miscarried or lost in the mail?

    A man on a horse came leisurely riding so light;
    Can you direct us to the home of Mr. White?
    It’s three miles from here--take the road to the right;
    And walk we must, there was nothing else in sight.
    We arrived there safely, ’twas a small home, but neat,
    Nestled away under pine trees so sweet.
    There wasn’t a screen on windows or doors,
    Not even a mat on any of the floors.
    A sturdy farmer, he declared a home to make
    For his family; but hard work it would take.

    A church deacon called one cool Friday night,
    And said he wanted to have the right
    To have a baptizing in the lake next Sunday at eleven,
    For their minister had many souls to bring to heaven.
    Mr. White said the water in many places was deep,
    Especially such and such a place; must open eyes keep;
    The place that he mentioned was a very deep hole,
    You will have to be careful--I’ll prepare a long pole.
    Sunday morning dawned, not a cloud to be seen,
    And the weeds all around had been mowed down and clean;
    Many wagons drove in full of good people
    Who were going to praise God without a church or a steeple.

    Out in the open, a gorgeous blue canopy, and the sun
    Was warm and delicious, this day in June.
    The minister looked pale, I thought, as he stood there.
    The services began, a few words and a prayer;
    Then an old man sang out, after giving thanks
    With a trill in his voice on Jordan’s stormy banks.
    They all joined in and sang this way and that,
    And another good friend passed ’round the hat.
    The minister held to the pole, and the Good Book,
    And began to descend into the water. I shook
    From my head to my heels, in every limb,
    I was very much troubled in watching him.
    The next cautious step he took I let out a yell,
    I was nervous true, I’m ashamed to tell;
    I heard Farmer White say, only two nights before,
    Be very careful, not too far from shore.

    People said this fine minister was mighty brave,
    Such a good man of the gospel, these poor souls to save;
    The baptizing went on; each one received tender care
    By the friends who lived in the neighborhood there.
    When the last amen was said, I lifted a prayer
    And a deep sigh, for His merciful and tender care.
    It was all so simple, out on the green.
    To a more solemn service I never have been.
    They dined and feasted, the sun went to rest;
    Each wended their way to the home they loved best.

    This was the beginning, but it was not the last,
    They have built up a church, and many years have passed.
    The days glided by, our visit came to an end
    Only too soon, we parted our mutual friend;
    Then we bade them to remember our latch key was always outside;
    Do come and make a visit, and we’ll show you our town,
       with much pride.




Leaving the Old Home.


    We are leaving the old home that has sheltered us long,
    Its walls have recorded many a tear, many a song.
    How can I leave you, sweet home, for the new;
    We have baeen such good friends, some years, it is true.
    I know every corner, from the attic down,
    And also the cellar; dear house, painted brown.

    This chair I have sat in, is creaky and old;
    I cannot give up, though you offer me gold.
    This bureau, and bedstead, is old fashioned, too,
    All painted white, with wide panels of blue;
    And morning glories entwined, with roses so pink,
    With my babes in my arms, sweet memories link.

    In this bed our children first saw light of day,
    Where we taught them, Our Father, at even to pray;
    I’ll go out tonight and ask Venus, the star,
    Fair Queen of the Heavens, will I my happiness mar?
    And if she is blinking, I’ll know it means yes,
    And will shine in my windows, my new home to bless.


Typographical errors corrected by the etext transcriber:

Some skiis and some skates=>
Some skis and some skates {pg 24}

Tick-tock I say, all day and and night through=>
Tick-tock I say, all day and all night through {pg 69}

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PETUNIA BLOSSOMS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
